YouTube, it's Chris. Welcome back to the
channel. In this video, I want to help
you get the highest frames and lowest
latency out of PUBG with your PC. Now,
I've avoided esports titles up until now
because generally speaking, older games
will run really, really well, especially
have newer hardware. Although, a lot of
you guys have been requesting games like
this. So, I'm going to start doing games
like this now. And if anything, it might
not actually help you if you already go
into the game and put everything on low.
Um, but at least will give you guys some
peace of mind that I've tested a whole
bunch of things and debunked a whole
bunch of different optimizations for the
certain game. So hopefully it can help
some of you guys out. For some of you,
it may not. On default settings, the
game mostly put me on ultra settings, a
couple of settings on medium and high.
Benchmarks are tested with these specs.
Do not expect identical results on your
hardware. That said, you can expect
similar scaling with my recommendations.
On default 4K, we've gone from 480 FPS
with the optimized setting of 880 FPS
with a nice FPS 1% low increase. Now,
this game engine gets really weird when
you start getting above a,000 FPS. So,
yes, I did see scaling in 1440p and
1080p, but I won't show those here as
there is a 0.1% issue with this game.
Once you go over a,000 FPS, the 1% lows
go really, really bad. So, I'll show
that later on. disable intros. You can
go into the PUBG options of Steam and
add the launch option no splash and the
other video intros. Just go to your PUBG
TSL content movies folder and rename
these files here. I've made a config on
GitHub. This is automated if you guys
are interested. Apply the config. I want
you guys to go to the start menu, type
in script,
click on this, scroll down and turn this
on so you can run PowerShell scripts. I
also want you to go back to your start
menu and type in PowerShell. Right click
and run as administrator. Make sure it
says administrator Windows PowerShell.
Let's leave this window here. I want you
to go to Google. Google freethy GitHub
should be the first thing that comes up.
Need to go to GitHub game convix. Scroll
down. You should see the IWR. We're
going to click on this to copy the code.
We can close that now. Now we can right
click to paste or Ctrl +V to paste.
It'll copy that code there. And then you
go ahead and press enter. should have a
nice little menu here. I want you to
click number seven for PUBG
Battlegrounds. Press enter. You've just
downloaded the game and haven't launched
it yet. Launch the game first, then
close the game just to create the config
location and press enter. That'll apply
the config and the game settings. And
then there's just a little bit of intro
that we've already talked about.
Removing no intro for people that don't
actually watch the video. Press any key
here. We can close this window out or we
can press one and then enter to exit.
Now, I'm quite disappointed in these
game developers not including reflex in
the game at all. And that's you may have
noticed that I haven't included latency
tests in this game. I could technically
get out my external latency tool and use
muzzle flash, but it's not very
reliable. Also, I've left out latency
tests in this video, but what really
frustrates me is if you go into the
config, you can actually see a DLSS line
and even a dynamic render resolution
line, but there are no settings for that
in the game at all, which is quite
frustrating. So, Nvidia make it really
easy for game developers to implement
reflex in their game, but these game
developers just seem lazy and haven't
done it. And that goes the same for DLSS
and all the other things as well. Now,
we're in the game. Go to settings. cuz
the config should be applied for you. I
would recommend playing in full screen,
but if you are on Windows 11, you can
play borderless fine on DirectX11 if you
really like. Don't do that on 10. Do not
play DirectX11 games in borderless or
windowed mode at all. Okay, so just full
screen if you're really not sure. Just
to be safe, you're in the right flip
model.
Select your correct resolution. All the
settings should be done for you. I've
basically left everything very, very
low. If you got a good card, you can
turn some settings up obviously. And
I've turned sharpening on. Benchmarked a
bunch of other things and I'll show you
guys later on in the video, but
DirectX11 enhanced is best. If you are
on an AMD card, you want to be using
DirectX12. If you're on a Nvidia card,
stay on DirectX11 enhance, which is the
default setting for the game. Couple
other things disabled like replay,
network debug, GPU crash, debug, some
other stuff here and there. I doubt it
actually is going to help or do
anything, but I've done it anyway. Now,
let's say you've already gone and turned
your game settings down low. It probably
won't be any different. uh or if you
just want to get into this game, you've
tried the config. If you still feel like
your CPU can spit out more frames and
you're completely GP bound, you're
either on a midc card with a really high
resolution or you're on a lowerend card
and you're just completely struggling.
Unfortunately, like I said before about
the whole DLSS and you know the dynamic
render resolution thing, it's not really
available. So, your only really option
would be to drag down the render scale,
which I wouldn't recommend cuz it would
actually look a lot worse. The only
really option at that point is just
going a lower resolution. Now, if this
config doesn't help you or going very
very low doesn't boost your frames at
all, more than likely you're running
into a CPU bottleneck situation. You
need to upgrade your CPU. One thing I
want you guys to pay attention to even
more so for the fact that the game
doesn't have reflex built into it. Pay
attention to your GPU usage while you're
playing. If you go over 90% GPU usage,
I'd really highly recommend you capping
your FPS
or at least cap it to something that's
not going to go over 90% GPU usage
because you will introduce a lot of
input lag if you do go over that 90
mark, the 90% of your GPU usage. So, use
some kind of an overlay like River Tuner
or something like that and just checking
your general gameplay. This is going to
mainly apply to to lower end to mid
mid-end um card users. might actually be
worth capping also because of the high
FPS 1% low bug that I'm going to talk
about soon, but we'll talk about that
later. Tested the different DirectX
models. We have DirectX11 enhanced,
which is default, which is best. You've
also got DirectX11. So, I'm not sure
what this is. This might be DirectX 11
and then the top one might by default
might be DirectX 11.1 or 11.2. I'm not
entirely sure, but the default version
is best. And then in DirectX12,
um that that's our result there. So, the
DirectX11 enhanced is best, although
this may be different on an AMD card
because AMD cards tend to do really
really well in DirectX12 and not always
as well in DirectX11. I won't bore you
guys with too many benchmark graphs.
I'll I'll talk about the things that
I've tested, but I wanted to at least
show rebar. Rebar was on by default. Um,
if you've got it on in BIOS, it's on by
default in Nvidia Inspector. It didn't
really help that much, but it doesn't do
any harm. So, just just leave it on. uh
leave it on in your bias and you don't
need to enforce it in an inspector. It's
on by default. Now, let's talk about
this high FPS bug, which is really
bothering me and it was really bothering
me today because I've spent all day
benchmarking different things with this
game trying to find out what is going
on. Um, and you know, just little bits
and pieces we'll talk about soon. It
seems like when you get over a certain
amount of FPS, it really tanks your 0.1
and 1% lows. Now, here is 1440p just to
show you guys um that it it gets tanked,
but I also So, as you can see, so 1440p
default settings, right? As you can see,
we're only getting like 820 here. So, it
it seems to be fine. When I use the
optimized settings, because we're
getting over a certain amount of FPS, it
actually really harms the 1% lows. And
it this gets even worse on 1080p. And I
did include DirectX12 here just to show
you that that issue actually doesn't
happen because we weren't hitting the
FPS. So look, the point of me showing
you this is that it seems like there is
a high FPS bug in this game and you
might not want to be running ridiculous
amount of frames in this game. It may do
harm. Now obviously in a real match
you're probably not going to be getting
over a,000 FPS anyway because this is a
game optimization guide. I need to go
pick somewhere where it's um relatively
GPU heavy because I can't affect what
your CPU is doing at all. Um you know,
and all the players are going to be
around you at the time of a gunfight.
But we need to just get the GPU usage
down um in the highest frames as
possible. So I need to test somewhere
where it's consistent. Now, here's great
example. So 1080p, look at what happens
with the 1% lows. Now, I did test after
test after test after test, and this
just kept happening. So, it seems like
over about a thousand or so, like the 1%
lows really get harmed no matter what
you do. So, I decided to cap in game.
The in-game would only let me cap to
300. Look, they're completely fixed.
They're not low like that. And then I
thought, hey, well, what if I wanted to
cap something to something higher? So,
my general rule of thumb of
recommendation is use always in-game cap
first. If that doesn't work, use Nvidia
Driver. If that doesn't work, use
something like River Tuners Reflex
option. Um, and as you can see here, I
thought, hey, let's just cap with River
Tuna's reflex option at 800 and see if
the 1% loads still get harmed and and
they don't. So, the sweet spot seems to
be like under a,000 FPS. I just thought
I'd mention that. Um, even for the
future, if any of you guys, you know,
have a insane rig in 10 years and you're
still playing PUBG, um, with the way
this engine works is it's it seems to
really screw things up over a certain
amount of FPS. And after seeing all
this, it makes me realize that some
people might actually prefer DirectX12
for that exact reason because um the 1%
lows are just going to be smoother even
though the frame rate is going to be
lower. So ideally, you want to use
DirectX11 enhanced with some kind of an
FPS cap if you're getting a ridiculous
amount of frames. Let's talk about all
the things I tested and felt like I wast
felt like I wasted my time today testing
everything. Um but at least it'll give
you a bunch of you guys peace of mind.
Um, now the problem is there's a lot of
um, documentation online on doing
different things for this game because
the game's been out for a long time. It
looks like the developers are locking
out of all you being able to do a lot of
things, which is interesting. So SM4
used to be a launch command. You could
force direct X10. Uh, that is not
working anymore. So that was no dice, no
go. Um, scalability ini or engine in II
or input ini adding extra lines. That
was no dice. tried something by VIP Map
Pep and I also tried my own. I went to
the um the reference for the Unreal
Engine um documentation, added a bunch
of stuff. The game just deletes it. It
doesn't accept it even if you try read
only. So that was a no dice is available
all available cores. The game is already
doing that. That made no difference.
Matt anti-alias did nothing. The game
you can already disable anti-aliasing by
turning it very low in the game. Memory
allocation system made no difference.
The game's still allocating memory. I
tried high priority. The game is in
default to normal priority. High
priority made no difference. Did not
help whatsoever. Tried affinities for
the game. Disabling all the threads for
the game. That actually made things
worse. So I do not recommend doing that.
The game is actually using
multi-threaded stuff. Fine. And I even
tried disabling CPU 0 and CPU 1, which
is core one and thread one. That didn't
help either. So I tested everything I
could. Did my best. Long story short, if
you're on an AMD card, probably use
DirectX12. If you're on an Nvidia card,
use DirectX11 enhanced. Cap your FPS.
Ideally in game after that Nvidia driver
after that. If that doesn't you don't
have any luck with that. Try that river
tuna reflex option. Don't go over 90%
GPU usage. And if you're getting a
ridiculous amount of frames in game like
over a,000 or something like that, you
might want to capture something around
800 or just something that you can
consistently get. I've found, at least
testing things with Unreal Engine 4,
once you get past that 400 FPS mark,
input lag doesn't really come down that
much. It's very, very minimal. So, don't
feel bad if you feel like you need to
capture something fairly stable. It'll
be fine. Benchmarking this game was a
bit of a mess today. Was a bit of a
pain, but it's done. Hope you guys found
the video helpful. I'll see you guys in
the next one.
Optimizing game settings in config files
can only do so much. Please consider
going through this video and GitHub
guide to cover the basic Windows and
BIOS optimizations. If hardware is
limiting your performance, please check
out my build guide for upgrades and PC
build suggestions. Make sure to update
the latest graphics drivers or at least
the recommended version from the game
developer or game mentioned in driver
patch notes from the driver developer.
The Nvidia app with certain settings
turned on will cause frame rate loss.
Turn off optimized games and creative
applications. Turn off automatically
optimized newly added games and apps.
Avoid using game filters and statistics.
As far as AMD drivers, I've not seen any
tests. Be cautious. Fan launcher should
have logging, game overlay, hardware
acceleration, cloud sync turned off.
Please do this for web browsers,
Spotify, Discord, or anything else open
while you play your games. Any
monitoring or RGB program causes frame
rate loss, even closed. This includes
ASUS Armory Crate, MSI, Gigabyte, ASRock
Driver Utilities, NZ XT Cam, Corsair IQ,
Leon Lee, L Connect, and etc. Uninstall
if possible. Services and drivers for
these apps still run even if the apps
are closed. GPUZ, hardware info, MSI
After Burner, and etc. can cause frame
rate problems when logging GPU power.
Close these out when gaming or turn off
GPU power logging. If you'd like your
BIOS, game, PC, Windows fresh tuned and
optimized, check out my PC service. All
links can be found in the description
below. They're just checkling tree.